(melodic music)
Alright, what is Gatsby?
Like? What's the big deal?
Why does everybody love it?
What I'm going to do in this video sort of break down,
I think what are the more important parts
to me the developer
as to why this is an awesome framework
for building a website.
So I like to think of Gatsby
as a framework for building modern websites.
And the reason we call it a framework over a library
is because it comes with everything.
It comes with a way to manage your data,
It comes with a routing strategy,
It comes with a build process, all of that stuff.
Whereas unlike React, React is just a library
that's used for rendering out data
to HTML or to
the DOM very quickly.
So React does use ,sorry, Gatsby does use React
under the hood and then adds on a whole bunch
of other stuff use for building a modern website.
So why does everybody love it?
Well, it makes it really, really easy.
Almost effortless, I would say,
to create fast and modern websites.
So modern websites,
I've just got to two websites up right here.
This is going to be what we're building in
this website here.
This is Slick's Slices is going
to be available at Gatsby.pizza.
If you want to visit it,
just see what we're building as well
as my own personal website.
I have been running on Gatsby as well.
So like, what's the big deal?
Well, this is my Homepage and if I click
over to my Blog page,
you see how fast that was for click back
to my Homepage, boom, blog page, go over to this.
You see how fast I'm navigating this.
I'm not on particularly fast internet.
And I didn't do a whole bunch
of extra work in order to make that, that fast.
So previously with other CMSs,
if you wanted to use a lot of the
new JavaScript things like PushDate,
like like if I go to
my Pizza Menu,
and I click on Onion and I Go back to all
you'll see how the URL is updating up here.
However, I'm not actually reloading the page.
It's simply just pushing from one page to another.
If I go to my order and we add some things to our order,
and then we go back to the Homepage,
and we go back to order, the order is still there.
Because we're actually not going from page to page,
we're just loading in different pieces of the website
and then updating the URL.
So it's it's almost effortless in order
to make a really fast website like that.
So why is it fast?
Well, at the core of Gatsby, it's what is referred to
as a static site generator or pre generation,
meaning that there is a build step in your website.
So if you think of something like a WordPress,
WordPress is on demand, meaning if somebody goes to
a blog post on your website,
what happens is that WordPress accepts the URL.
It parses the slug into ,
this is a tag page.
This is a single Blog Post.
This is a paginated page four and then it takes
that URL and translates it into what needs
to be looked up in the Database.
It translates it into what Template needs to be rendered,
it takes your data from your database,
your template, puts them together, generates the HTML,
and then spits it out The other end.
There's a whole bunch of steps that sort
of go on in between that.
So Gatsby still does that type of thing.
But it's done at build time.
Meaning that when I'm ready to push
this WesBos.com up,
it will take five ,10 minutes or depending
on if you have a special build setup,
you can actually get it done in just a couple of seconds.
It will regenerate the HTML for us.
So if we go to this page here,
and I were to view the source on it,
you'll see that all of this HTML
is generated here and that was not done
when I visited the website ,that was done a week ago,
the last time I built my website.
And by doing having all of that HTML,
already generated it allows the website
to load much, much faster.
Other things that it does is it's smart about your CSS,
meaning that it will load the critical CSS.
So if I go to this blog post here,
and I look at the view source,
you're going to see a whole bunch of CSS
that has been loaded in here.
And Gatsby is able to figure out what
is the CSS that is needed.
So when I load the page,
it loads the CSS as fast as possible,
or it loads the CSS before the content,
meaning you don't get that jerk , jerky motion
where you it's called the flash of unstyled content
that that sort of goes on the website.
Other things that it does is it does rehydration.
So like what makes Gatsby different
than just any other static site generator out there?
Well, if we go to this page right here,
this isn't is a React application here.
So even if you were to,
if you page source,
and let's see exactly ,here we go.
It says, For about exactly 65 or whatever milliseconds,
I've been a developer.
And if we go to the page here,
that's not the number of milliseconds that's showing up.
That's the number of milliseconds it was
when I built the website.
However Gatsby will do a thing is
where it will load this HTML under the page.
And then it will pick it up from there
and turn it into a fully featured React application.
And in this case, I'm doing something silly
and I'm just updating the number
of milliseconds I've been a developer,
but that just goes to show that
you can have static HTML and then pick it up.
It's called rehydration in the browser
and have a fully featured React application.
Same thing with the the pizza website right here.
This is just static HTML renders out your
info your name, your email, renders out the email.
And then when it loads,
the browser will then turn it or rehydrate it
into a React application.
So we can do things like add the pizzas
and remove them and submit our actual order.
What else does it do,
it does image,
see how these images are blurry,
and then as I scroll in they load themselves.
That is what is referred to as Lazy Loading.
So you don't need to download the image
until you're just about to see it.
And Gatsby will do that for you.
It'll also compress all of your images,
it will convert them into modern formats
like WebP if the browser supports it.
And all of this like hard stuff
with image handling used to be hard.
(laughing)
So it's now extremely easy when you use a framework
like Gatsby, which is really cool.
It does routing, so again like I said,
If I click through to these,
you see how like the first time I visited this website,
the people were blurry and then they fade in.
And then if I click through to it, it'll take a second
and then load the large image.
But if I go back to SliceMasters Now,
those are already been loaded
so that routing and loading is baked right into it,
as well as huge plugin ecosystem just as a WordPress
is awesome because it has a whole plugin ecosystem.
Gatsby is awesome because you can get plugins
for doing things like offline access
or Code highlighting ,YouTube Embeds, you name it
there's thousands of plugins out there for it.
So that is why people really like Gatsby.
The one thing that gets me is not currently
is it is not a CMS, meaning that there is no back end
that you log into Gatsby and update your content.
For that you'd still need a CMS
whether that is WordPress, or in our case
we're going to use a CMS called sanity
and we'll talk about That much more coming up.
And then finally, there are a couple of
shortcomings in terms of because of its static nature.
You do need to code things in a particular way,
specifically when it comes to dynamic pages,
and we'll for sure be covering all of that in this course.
So that is Gatsby, that's why we really like it.
I just ran the App that we're building through this.
This is called Lighthouse.
And Lighthouse is sort of like,
it'll give you a score on how fast
and best practices and accessible your website is.
And I literally did nothing to get the score.
Meaning that until I was about to record this video,
I didn't even look it up, I didn't tweak anything
like that and we got almost hundreds out of the box.
And that's why it gets to be so good
because by default, it makes you code in such a way
and it builds it in such a way
that you're making a really fast performance accessible,
SEO friendly website which is pretty cool.
That's it, Let's get coding.